== What it is:

call.go is more or less a Go version of netcat. It was written partly
because Chris Siebenmann felt like it and partly because he overlooked
the -U option to netcat (and needed something that talked to Unix
sockets). You probably want to use netcat instead. In short, it makes
network connections then copies stdin to the network and the network
to stdout. If it sees EOF on stdin, it tells the network connection
that no more data will be coming; if it reads EOF on the network
connection, it stops.

This now requires Go 1.1 because it uses the new net.DialOpt()
interface to allow specifying the local address for an outgoing network
connection. An older version only requires Go 1.0 (but works better on
Go 1.1).

Disclaimer: this is the author's first Go program. It likely shows.

The program has a bunch of comments at the start of call.go to
describe its usage. However, they are somewhat terse, so here's some
additional commentary.

usage: call [args] [proto] {address | host port}

Although the comments show [args] in the traditional Unix form,
call.go doesn't accept them that way; you must give each flag
separately. You may thank Go's standard argument parsing module
for this.

proto is the protocol to use and is derived from the protocol names
used by Go's net package. Supported protocols:

	tcp4, tcp6, udp4 and udp6 are IPv4 and IPv6 TCP and UDP.
	tcp and udp are the generalized versions; they mean to try
	both IPv4 and IPv6 if possible.

	ssl/tls are TLS without certificate verification
	sslver/tlsver are TLS with certificate verification

	unix is (stream) Unix domain sockets; the address is the
	socket file name.
	unixpacket is Unix SOCK_SEQPACKET sockets; they basically
	act like stream sockets.
	unixgram is datagram Unix domain sockets. They work so-so.

The default protocol is 'tcp'.

All of the SSL/TLS options use 'tcp' as the underlying protocol, so
they will try to make both IPv6 and IPv4 connections if warranted and
possible.

For IP protocols, address is 'host:port' where the host is optional.
For connecting to things, a missing host (':port') means localhost;
for listening for connections, a missing host means (normal)
wildcarded listening. host may be a hostname or an IPv4/IPv6 address
(the latter written as '[::1]' and so on). port may be a number or a
port name.

When given only two arguments, the usage is ambiguous: you could be
doing 'call proto address' or 'call host port'. call decides which it
is based on whether or not the first argument is a known and valid
protocol or whether or not the second argument contains a ':'.

=== options cross-reference

Usage of ./call:
  -C=0: if non-zero, only listen for this many connections then exit
  -H=false: print received datagrams as hex bytes
  -P=false: just print our known protocols
  -R=false: only receive datagrams, do not try to send stdin
  -b="": make the call from this local address
  -l=false: listen for connections instead of make them
  -q=false: be quieter in some situations

-P preempts (and ignores) all other options.

-b only works in non-l mode. It sets the local address for the
outgoing call. For TCP and UDP protocols the full version is
'host:port'; if there is no :, call infers that it is a hostname
and supplies a trailing ':' (which means 'this host, any port').

The following options only affect -l: -C NUM, -H, -R. -H and -R only
affect -l for datagram sockets, not for stream sockets (although -H
may work with stream sockets someday). -C NUM only works with stream
sockets, since datagram sockets don't really have a connection count.

-l doesn't work for TLS and probably never will since that would
require the addition of even more options to specify key, certificate,
certificate chains and augh augh no. call.go already has too many
options as it is.

=== -l oddities

-l puts call.go into 'listen' mode, where instead of making a
connection to a server it tries to act as one. It is not entirely good
at this and there are a number of oddities that result. It is better
for stream socket protocols than for datagram protocols.

As a server for stream socket protocols call.go listens for
connections, accepts one, and then goes into its normal conversational
mode except that it is EOF on standard input that ends the
conversation, instead of EOF from the network; EOF from the network
just prints a message so you know. If you EOF the connection without
the other end having sent a network EOF first, call will often print:
	call: network read error: read <blah>: use of closed network connection

This is an unavoidable artifact of Go networking.

It is less clear what having a conversation as a server means when
we're dealing with datagram packets, where various clients can send us
packets out of the blue. call opts to take a vaguely useful approach:
if it's not already copying standard input to somewhere and it gets a
packet, it starts copying standard input to the source of that packet
(up until EOF). If you have a single client sending UDP packets, this
is roughly equivalent to a stream socket.

(This is how 'nc -lu' behaves for one connection, but the mechanics
are different. nc connect()s its UDP socket and then write()s to it;
call leaves its UDP socket unconnected and uses sendto(). Aren't you
glad you asked? Also, this difference is forced by Go's networking
package.)

=== Author:

Chris Siebenmann
https://github.com/siebenmann/call.go
http://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/

(and elsewhere)
